gentlemen we've talked an awful lot on
our air recently about socialism vs.
capitalism defending capitalism all of
the different political pressures that
are kind of being brought as we get into
another election year and I thought
maybe we could talk about that this
morning - over the weekend several
questions came up about defending
capitalism in Warren you you did step
out and and say that you're a
card-carrying member a card-carrying
capitalist in front of everyone what do
you think about the attacks that we've
seen to this point on capitalism well I
think I don't think people exactly even
know what they're talking about it isn't
the capitalism it's perfect but if you
look at what was here in 1776 and look
at what is here now this country is an
incredible job in terms of the
deployment of resources and and and and
human ingenuity and that is a product of
a system and now does that mean that
every decision should be made simply by
open market determinants that there's
need for regulation obviously and there
are things that have long-term costs and
might not get built in but the idea of
people unleashing their potential using
the resources they have to create what
we have now from what was here 240 some
years ago it's absolutely a miracle and
what all three of us have seen during
our lifetime and if you compare that
with any centralized planned economy I
you know I think we win hands down and I
I think I think we've just started with
what capitalism could produce in the
United States but I do think it
obviously it it needs her rules and
regulations well you did an interview in
Davos with someone and I you made a
pretty innocuous statement that you
looked around you thought capitalism was
the best system and you got attacked
online from all these people who came up
with these crazy statements about how
could you say things like that I mean
what do you think about the climate when
you see things like that
well that some people think when you
defend capitalism you're defending the
tax rates we have today and saying that
higher absolute tax rates are more
progressive tax rates that you disagree
with them in I I don't think
Warren and I are disagreeing that you
could make the taxes more progressive in
fact we've been very explicit in some
areas like the estate tax and saying we
think that would be a good thing
socialism you got your where she came
back socialism used to mean that the
state controlled the means of production
and a lot of people who are promoting
socialism actually aren't using that
classic definition so what we're gonna
have is capitalism with some level of
Taxation most people really aren't
arguing against capitalism there may be
a few but most people are just saying
that the taxes should should change
although you do have someone who I think
is pulling the second-highest and the
Democratic Party right now who was a
socialist until very recently Bernie
Sanders well whether or not he was a
socialist by the full term about now
there there is some money areas when you
start to say there shouldn't be any
billionaires that you have some cap on
wealth or something like that that goes
beyond what I think and and you could
say I'm self-interested the present
government needs to reallocate some
resources I mean extreme case would be
in World War two I mean that's the
closest we've come to socialism you had
an office of Price Administration you
had a war production board yeah I mean
but during peacetime you're always
prepared for war Nia does that through
government
government government needs to
reallocate some resources but the the
market system which exists under
capitalism is an extraordinarily
effective way and is proven it of of
using resources human and other kinds to
produce incredible goods and Henry Ford
could learn a devise a system that could
turn out a couple million cars a year
but he could only use half a dozen
himself for his whole family could use
50 I mean he had to turn out a couple of
million cars that other people got to
use and that that would not have in my
view I think if you'd set up a
government Bureau in 1850 and given them
a hundred years you'd have ever come up
with anything like the assembly lines of
Ford and all of the things that have
happened human ingenuity is incredible
and you want something that maximizes
its use and and then curbs a few of the
people may have this or that but for all
for themselves Charlie you've made the
great proof of how capitalism works is
China when China copied Singapore and
let the farmers on their own plots and
let the manufacturers on their own
businesses and so forth China's
productivity increased many times and
they went from rural poverty to modern
extreme wealth and they did it by
adopting a fair amount of capitalism no
the Democratic politician doesn't
understand that he's nuts you've made
the same point though Charlie that you
think private sector does it much better
than the government sector however a lot
of these people who are running also
want to make government much bigger did
you have a quarrel with that or now well
as they say if you love your post office
you're gonna love socialized medicine
want to make it bigger in terms of
redistributing they may want to the
market system is brutal and it leaves
behind people who are perfectly
wonderful people who don't have market
related talents
and who are just unlucky yeah just plain
unlucky and in a rich society believe me
if we have a war or something like that
but we call on those people and I'll pay
them practically nothing to go fight for
us and it and it we want goods slowing
but it's going to displace the textile
worker that we use happens on so so the
the function of government is not
necessarily to get bigger it may be in
an important way to take care of people
who for one reason or other get left
behind in a market system that you also
regarded as the is essentially this huge
source of wealth and goods and services
so how do you fix the problems or at
least the perception of problems which
there's a huge perception out there and
the American bloating right now
obviously would help of our government
we're wiser and it would be wiser if the
two sides didn't hate each other so much
anger drives out reason and there is
absolute cold fury between politicians
on one side and politicians on the other
it's quite counterproductive for that
reason I don't allow myself to get angry
at politicians how would you fix it well
I just don't let myself get that angry
politicians I don't expect them to
Bursar's work better because Charlie and
I've never been that each other yeah it
just does I mean way better we got mad
at each other I'd you know I try and
kill his deals he'd try to help my deal
off it just doesn't work that way we
don't need a couple of alpha males
bluster handling or this stuff just
cooler them take a little reputational
hit and get get the feathers but we Otto
down we ought to worry about the people
that don't then end of the system but we
want the system and a lot of people are
getting left further and further behind
because as capitalism gets more advanced
it gets more specialized and there
actually is greater difference between
the haves and the have-nots and the
haves could take care of the have-nots
that means both parties and basically
agree on that they just yes how you get
there it comes
I'm tax credit it can make a huge jump
in that direction I mean no Social
Security all that we've done various
things over the years we have improved
we've improved the public school systems
we've improved things that do give
people more of an equal chance and take
care of people who fall by the wayside
we just got to keep doing it
you